# P6_SearchBarGoogle
Goal of the project is to determine what citizens type in a Google search bar to obtain political information during referendum campaigns

### Title
 A Different Approach to Echo Chamber and Filter Bubble: What are Citizens Typing in a Google Search Bar?
 
### Summary
 Despite the broad consensus that search engine is seminal for online political information seeking, surprisingly little is known about citizens’ search queries. Previous research concentrated on the selection of political information in the search engine result’s page (SERP), and disregarded search queries. That is, prior to self-selecting political information from the pre-selected list of information sources, citizens can inform the search engine’s algorithm about their search expectations by typing terms in a search bar. The aim of this study was then to determine what are citizens typing in the search bar when seeking political information online.  Are they typing generic political terms because they trust the algorithm know which information source is the most relevant for them? Are they typing precise political terms because they know precisely which type of information source they want? Or are they already selective in their search instructions to obtain consonant and avoid dissonant political information?
From a democratic perspective, what citizens type in the search bar is not only crucial for the algorithmic personalization, but is also insightful about their selective exposure strategy. In other words, an analysis of political search queries provides a different approach to the study of the echo chamber (Sunstein, 2001) and the filter bubble hypotheses (Pariser, 2011). An encompassing analysis of online political information seeking strategy is pivotal to ensure an enlightened participation of citizens in a democracy (Dahl, 1989; Strömbäck, 2005; Vowles, 2013).
This study examines citizens’ search queries in a referendum context. Foremost, it operates Tate’s (2010) classification of information sources in a SERP to compare search query types. Then, it pinpoints individual-level drivers behind the search query types, and isolate their influence on information selection in a SERP. To do so, it exploits two mock Google webpage experiments during two real-world referendums in Switzerland in 2017 and 2019. A manual content analysis of respondents’ search queries (N=740 ; N=1022) evaluates what citizens type in a search bar when seeking political information. First, the results emphasize the prevalence of informational search queries. Second, a binary logistic regression isolates age, sex, and political knowledge as moderator variables of search query types. Third, a binary logistic regression indicates that what citizens type in the search bar has no influence on what they select in the SERP. At the end, this study contributes to the research agenda on political information selection in a search engine environment. Instead of focusing only on what citizens select in a SERP, it concentrates on what citizens type in the search bar to obtain an encompassing understanding of political information seeking online.

